# Go API client for stsv1alpha

Exchange ID tokens for Equinix access tokens according to managed trust relationships. STS is an alpha service and is not generally available to customers.

## Overview
This API client was generated by the [OpenAPI Generator](https://openapi-generator.tech) project.  By using the [OpenAPI-spec](https://www.openapis.org/) from a remote server, you can easily generate an API client.

- API version: 1.0.0-alpha
- Package version: 0.62.0
- Generator version: 7.16.0
- Build package: org.openapitools.codegen.languages.GoClientCodegen
For more information, please visit [https://docs.equinix.com/api-support.htm](https://docs.equinix.com/api-support.htm)

## Installation

Install the following dependencies:

```sh
go get github.com/stretchr/testify/assert
go get golang.org/x/net/context
```

Put the package under your project folder and add the following in import:

```go
import stsv1alpha "github.com/equinix/equinix-sdk-go/services/stsv1alpha"
```

To use a proxy, set the environment variable `HTTP_PROXY`:

```go
os.Setenv("HTTP_PROXY", "http://proxy_name:proxy_port")
```

## Configuration of Server URL

Default configuration comes with `Servers` field that contains server objects as defined in the OpenAPI specification.

### Select Server Configuration

For using other server than the one defined on index 0 set context value `stsv1alpha.ContextServerIndex` of type `int`.

```go
ctx := context.WithValue(context.Background(), stsv1alpha.ContextServerIndex, 1)
```

### Templated Server URL

Templated server URL is formatted using default variables from configuration or from context value `stsv1alpha.ContextServerVariables` of type `map[string]string`.

```go
ctx := context.WithValue(context.Background(), stsv1alpha.ContextServerVariables, map[string]string{
	"basePath": "v2",
})
```

Note, enum values are always validated and all unused variables are silently ignored.

### URLs Configuration per Operation

Each operation can use different server URL defined using `OperationServers` map in the `Configuration`.
An operation is uniquely identified by `"{classname}Service.{nickname}"` string.
Similar rules for overriding default operation server index and variables applies by using `stsv1alpha.ContextOperationServerIndices` and `stsv1alpha.ContextOperationServerVariables` context maps.

```go
ctx := context.WithValue(context.Background(), stsv1alpha.ContextOperationServerIndices, map[string]int{
	"{classname}Service.{nickname}": 2,
})
ctx = context.WithValue(context.Background(), stsv1alpha.ContextOperationServerVariables, map[string]map[string]string{
	"{classname}Service.{nickname}": {
		"port": "8443",
	},
})
```

## Documentation for API Endpoints

All URIs are relative to *https://sts.eqix.equinix.com*

Class | Method | HTTP request | Description
------------ | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
*UseApi* | [**UseTokenPost**](docs/UseApi.md#usetokenpost) | **Post** /use/token | 


## Documentation For Models

 - [ErrorResponse](docs/ErrorResponse.md)
 - [TokenExchangeResponse](docs/TokenExchangeResponse.md)
 - [TokenExchangeResponseIssuedTokenType](docs/TokenExchangeResponseIssuedTokenType.md)
 - [TokenExchangeResponseTokenType](docs/TokenExchangeResponseTokenType.md)
 - [UseTokenPostRequestGrantType](docs/UseTokenPostRequestGrantType.md)
 - [UseTokenPostRequestSubjectTokenType](docs/UseTokenPostRequestSubjectTokenType.md)


## Documentation For Authorization


Authentication schemes defined for the API:
### bearerAuth

- **Type**: HTTP Bearer token authentication

Example

```go
auth := context.WithValue(context.Background(), stsv1alpha.ContextAccessToken, "BEARER_TOKEN_STRING")
r, err := client.Service.Operation(auth, args)
```


## Documentation for Utility Methods

Due to the fact that model structure members are all pointers, this package contains
a number of utility functions to easily obtain pointers to values of basic types.
Each of these functions takes a value of the given basic type and returns a pointer to it:

* `PtrBool`
* `PtrInt`
* `PtrInt32`
* `PtrInt64`
* `PtrFloat`
* `PtrFloat32`
* `PtrFloat64`
* `PtrString`
* `PtrTime`

## Author



