CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

## Hello Contributors!
  Thx for your interest! We're so glad you're here.

### Important Resources
  - bugs: [https://github.com/equinix/equinix-sdk-go/issues](https://github.com/equinix/metal/issues)

### Code of Conduct
Available via [https://github.com/equinix/equinix-sdk-go/blob/master/.github/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md](https://github.com/equinix/metal/blob/master/.github/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)

### Environment Details
[https://github.com/equinix/equinix-sdk-go/blob/master/Makefile](https://github.com/equinix/equinix-sdk-go/blob/master/Makefile)

### How to Submit Change Requests
Please submit change requests and / or features via [Issues](https://github.com/equinix/equinix-sdk-go/issues). There's no guarantee it'll be changed, but you never know until you try. We'll try to add comments as soon as possible, though.

#### Pull Requests
All command changes must be reflected in the documentation, this includes new commands and changes to options. The documentation is generated via `make generate-docs`.

### How to Report a Bug
Bugs are problems in code, in the functionality of an application or in its UI design; you can submit them through [Issues](https://github.com/equinix/equinix-sdk-go/issues) as well.

Commit message:

docs: provide steps for updating and releasing this SDK (#70)
Once a team is onboarded to this SDK, it is expected that they will be
responsible for keeping the code for their service up-to-date. We didn't
have documentation to tell them how to do that; this adds those docs.

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

## Hello Contributors!
  Thx for your interest! We're so glad you're here.

### Code of Conduct
Available via [https://github.com/equinix/equinix-sdk-go/blob/master/.github/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md](https://github.com/equinix/metal/blob/master/.github/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)

### Environment Details
[https://github.com/equinix/equinix-sdk-go/blob/master/Makefile](https://github.com/equinix/equinix-sdk-go/blob/master/Makefile)

### How to Submit Change Requests

Please submit change requests and / or features via [Issues](https://github.com/equinix/equinix-sdk-go/issues). There's no guarantee it'll be changed, but you never know until you try. We'll try to add comments as soon as possible, though.

#### Pull Requests

The code in this repo is largely generated from OpenAPI specifications for Equinix APIs.  In general, we anticipate that updates to these specifications will come from automation or from Equinix employees.  Pull Requests that modify tooling such as `make` tasks, generator versions, or generator configuration, must also include any updates to the generated code.

### How to Report a Bug
Bugs are problems in code, in the functionality of an application or in its UI design; you can submit them through [Issues](https://github.com/equinix/equinix-sdk-go/issues) as well.
